start the
recording Eric you
good you're recording now it does not
say it's recording
Eric am I missing it it is on my screen
I can't hear
you yes at least on my screen it says
it's recording and I got the normal
warning for am I
recording I'm sorry say that again I had
my volume
down uh as far as I understand it's
recording it says
recording it does everybody else good on
there I see that too Jeff yes okay I'm
not seeing it online so that's fine so
um I'm going to call to order the town
of Andover Board of Selectmen special
meeting
oh sorry one
second
uh I'll restart calling to order the
town of Andover Board of Selectmen
special meeting February
25th uh with our first call to order the
Pledge of Allegiance I pledge allegiance
to the flag of the United States of
America and to the Republic for which we
stand one nation under God indivisible
with liberty and justice for all before
we get to public speak I had Eric and
the reason why we're a little delayed I
had Eric go check the community room
because there's a little bit of a mixup
on the website so there is no one in the
community room so that we know of right
now um public speak so I'm gonna start
with
uh Kate Caitlyn McIntosh green
house hi I'm just here on behalf of the
Board of Ed um I know we sent you guys a
letter but we are uh requesting a town
meeting um specifically uh for solar on
the school and we are requesting as a
board that that meeting be only about
that and that you schedule a different
town meeting to address the other
concerns um we think that the issue for
the school is specific for the school
thank you very
much um
Valerie I'm all set right now thank you
join I'm all set thank you
Tess
gr I'm all set thank
you uh and Jesse I do not know your last
name okay hello um hi Jesse go
ahead oh uh no I have nothing I'm just
observing thank you yep no problem uh
and I believe the phone number ending in
2345 is attorney O'Brien
correct all right uh did I miss anyone
oh I'm sorry um Mr Becker Eric um just
speaking as a board member as an
individual as well just want to comment
on the solar project that kayn also
commented on and bringing this to the
board of Selectmen for a potential town
boote as we see it's a good way to build
community support uh it's a big visible
project it's it's complexity and the
duration of it so um that's how the
board um brought this to your attention
and hope to have your support with it
okay thank you thank you very much did I
miss anyone else sorry about that Eric
um I was gonna bypass Mr Becker I didn't
mean to do that uh anyone else that I
miss nope okay so let's move on to uh
item three uh discuss scheduling a meet
a public meeting to discuss an act the
items that need to be addressed uh item
one the solar project for AES two the
request from the fire department for an
ordinance change to increase the tax
batement three an ordinance requiring U
regulating dogs on the recreational
Fields four financing for the Fire
Department Squad vehicle and five which
is a potential to send to the town
meeting a line of credit at Webster Bank
this is for discussions purposes only so
um let's go go through the individual
items um the solar project for AES
um is anyone object to sending the solar
project to town
meeting I feel that they should have
their own meeting a town meeting we can
be going to we can attend it but I think
the school should have their own the
Board of Ed should have their own
meeting and that's what was requested in
the letter that we received from
them okay um anybody else have any
issues related to a separate
meeting I mean I think a good compromise
at this point because they want they
wanted their own separate meeting um and
I I I think it's would be difficult for
for to arrange transportation for the
seniors or people that want to use the
buses to come to the public meetings so
if they want separate I have no problem
with it but if we could do it on the
same night maybe just do it you know
first and then close that meeting and
then go through the rest of the Town
issues um because I think the board ads
should be at the table to discuss this
we should get the engineer back that
Dennis had um to answer any questions
because he was very
informative and um he answered a lot of
questions that I had and he would
probably be able to answer a lot of the
questions that the public had regarding
the project um I was kind of 5050 on it
but after I talked to him and saw that
there's some Financial benefits to it
I'm I'm supporting the
project okay
um Kaitlyn I I would just like to ask
you because I'm not really in favor of
separate Town meetings I don't we don't
schedule them very often we try not to
schedule them very often and what we try
to do is is to put various items that
need to be addressed all in one meeting
so we don't do this that often so
would it be really that I
mean honestly I I I don't see there
being a problem related to the solar
project if it is if it is what it is
stated to be which is a no cost lease
for the community um so my question is
if we just did one public meeting would
it be that
bad I think per the way that it was
passed by our board that that that
wouldn't be what we had asked for and
then I would need to go back to my board
to Reas them so if you guys could do a
backtack meeting like Jeff has
suggesting but have it be a separate
meeting and then the other one start
right after I that would I think meet
the oaces of everything and I and I
include you know I understand the issues
in terms of transportation for people
that that may need help with that to get
to a town meeting um but yes it was
specifically asked for that it be a
separate
meeting okay
um Eric just so I understand the
logistics of this if we attempt to say
we're having two Town meetings on the
same night do we have to sit there and
go out of the AUD out of the gymnasium
and recheck in
or no I don't think you
would um you would just close one town
meeting and open another town meeting if
that's what you want to
do um I think that's definitely possible
and there's no reason you can't put both
town meeting announcements on the same
mailer um so I think that's it's doable
okay um then I I I will support the
separate meetings but on the same day um
does anybody have any issues related to
the solar project I mean obviously we're
just scheduling the meeting so we don't
have to discuss the solar project um so
you know hey I I need to say something
about this go ahead I'm sorry I I'd like
to I'd like to stay out of it but I
can't I just want them to understand you
can have two meetings Eric is right the
same
night um but the meeting has to be run
by you know the rules of the town
meeting and that's a that's under the
the charter okay it has to be opened by
the first selectman and the moderator
has to be elected
and we've got to follow the procedures
of a town meeting this is this is not
this is something that really needs to
be okayed by the town of Andover in my
view and I feel very strongly about that
and and that's you know it's not my
Dennis I don't have a vote on the board
but that's that's what I'm I'm telling
you I get it so I I would expect the
town meeting to run in the appropriate
manner the issue
that I hope the Board of Education
members understand is that there will be
a vote on that solar
project and I know Eric referenced it
and I'm assuming Caitlyn you're your
understanding of that I mean the reason
for us to bring the solar project to a
town meeting is specifically that
there's there's a potential uh penalty
Clause if something
occurs we understand everybody says it
won't happen the salesman says it won't
happen the Board of Education says it
won't happen but we need to put that
forth to the town residents and give
them um they because of our form of
government it's not a different it's a
town meeting form of government the town
meeting is legislative body the town
meeting has to sit there and understand
it because um I as one member of this
board will not sit there and take the
responsibility for saying yes on that
type of project um so there will be a
vote can can I just so that that's just
so that you guys understand as a board
that's why we asked for you to have a
town meeting because we understand how
large of a project this is even though
there's no Financial contribution to it
so okay thank you all right so then so
then we're all good to go on that um did
everybody have a chance so we'll move on
from the AES solar project and and when
we um when we vote on this we'll vote to
schedule a date and and I know that the
Board of Ed has a requirement to sit
there and do this quickly Eric Eric
When's the earliest date we can have a
meeting March 10th March
10th and meet our legal notification
requirements isn't that our meeting
date that would be our meeting
date so March 10th 11th and
13th is what the uh town clerk's office
says
are the three earliest dates we can do
it or you could do the 12th but then you
but up against the board of of uh
Education
meeting so we have a zba public hearing
and special meeting on the 11th
correct and what is that related to
Scott
the
field New Field with the playround
pickle ball courts
anyone have any recommendations as to
what they'd like to sit there and see
[Music]
done can I ask a question is is the 13th
Good Will that impact the the timing on
this kitlin well we're gonna have to do
it the 13th because everything else is
scheduled anybody have a problem with
scheduling you know the town meeting
date to be the
13th okay
so we'll sit there and use that as our
holding date right now unless something
else comes in so we have item two on
three the request from the fire
department for the um increase in their
abatement anybody have any issues moving
that to town
meeting okay I do not um anyone have any
issues with the ordinance regarding uh
limiting dogs on uh recreational Fields
within the town of Andover
no um item four financing for the Fire
Department Squad
vehicle uh Eric in the in the packet and
we have I'm I'm assuming that today we
would have to determine which
uh which term we're going to select for
this so I would suggest that you set a
10-year term the problem is at this
point we still really don't know when
the delivery date for the fire Tru got
pushed back again so right now now we're
looking at a
July date for getting the squad vehicle
um whereas I was under the impression
that we were looking at a May date to
get the vehicle so the exact terms are
not going to be determined until we get
closer to the date when we can sign a
final because those agreements change
we're not going to go I mean in my head
you're not going to go with a 15-year
because the way that this document is
written they have the ability to change
the rate after seven
years right so you don't want to do that
so you're looking at 10 years or seven
years and we don't have in the budget
enough money to pay it off over seven
years correct you would have to increase
the annual allotment to the fire
department to do that
okay
so I'm going to make a motion that we
uh well I'm G to make a motion that we
select 10 a 10-year term for the
financing options for the Fire
Department Squad
vehicle I'll second that all right
further discussion on this
issue all those in favor I I four
nothing
um item five the line of credit at
Webster Bank
uh so that we we had anticipated trying
to secure a line of credit from one of
the banks to uh to make
the payments for the time period between
when we have to pay the contractors that
are working on the bridge at Bunker Hill
Road and when the time we get rebated
because although this bridge is 100%
funded between state and federal dollars
we're still on the hook to run the
project and pay the contractors and then
get paid back um but
the um Webster Bank kind of uh jerked us
around for a while and then finally said
we can't do it without uh hiring Bond
counsel so I reached out to a couple of
bond councils and had a discussion about
this and both of the bond councils said
we can't actually under state law
receive a line of credit at as
municipality the only thing we could do
was go for What's called the grant
anticipation Bond or Grant anticipation
note the problem is is that takes the
same amount of time and the same amount
of paperwork and the same amount of
money as actually bonding a major
project so it just doesn't make sense
for this um we have money in both the
Bunker Hill Bridge fund and the bridge
and Culvert fund um and if the board of
Selectmen uh I asked Dennis to provide
me a legal opinion which I provided to
the board which basically says as long
as the board of Selectmen is okay with
it and authorizes that we can spend
money from both of those funds and then
rebate both of those funds when we get
rebated and so that should be enough to
pay for the full uh out of pocket cost
for the bridge as long as the federal
government actually pays
uh doesn't do something to jeopardize
the actual payments that they
promised so that's what I'm suggesting
although we were talking about pursuing
a line of credit I think that's at this
point the cost basis for doing that that
is too high for it to be worth it for
the town um it's slightly riskier uh
floating it out of both funds and not uh
you know not having some sort of line of
credit but I talked it over with the
town treasure and she's comfortable with
it and she's not willing to pay a uh for
a you know Bond Council just to just for
this short term of a of an event
have you
um have you had any discussions with kog
or any of the other groups as to what
the other towns are doing related to
these uh no I have
not all right I mean in the end we do
have enough available resources to to
cover
the you know sure you know what what
you're saying is those funds have 50% of
the cost of the total project almost
What's the total project again uh that's
still to be
spent uh 3.2 million roughly so the
million dollars will cover 33% of the
over of the total cost and then we would
submit those to the state assume we're
going to get reimbursed for the million
and then pay the next million and then
submit to the state get reimbursed
correct I mean we'll we'll be submitting
invoices
you know on a monthly basis basically
once a month we should get two bills one
from the contractor and one from the
construction inspection
firm
okay I have no problem not submitting
for well we can't submit for the line of
credit and I have no problem not bonding
or going to a bond councel for this
project right and has this been
discussed with Jay just to make sure
that public this is not going to impact
any Public Works uh projects going
forward this spring or summer no the
bridge and Culver fund that we're
talking about is basically the money
that's being banked for next Summer's
replacement of the bridge on on Lake
Road at Bola okay so that that's the
town's match towards a state local
Bridge Project that we've already got
State funding for but we're not going to
get the project in till next
construction season anyway and we should
be far enough along that we don't need
that money uh by
then the next time we might get a crunch
is when we replace the uh Long Hill
Bridge because we'll need that same
roughly million dollar swing when we
only have about
450,000 in the you know what we'll do is
we'll basically roll the Bunker Hill
Bridge fund and just rename it the L
Hill Bridge fund as soon as we're done
with Bunker Hill so around 27 when we do
Long Hill we will have already spent
everything in the bridge and Culvert
fund so we will need to revisit this
then but that's three years down the
road
so okay and this is the board of Finance
going to have to get engaged in this do
we just do we suggest to the board of
Finance to do a budget transfer to one
account or is we just going to pull it
out of both accounts I'm assuming we'll
just pull it out of both accounts um as
needed we'll deplete the Bunker Hill
Bridge fund first and then we'll deplete
the bridge and Culver fund second but
we'll refund to the bridge and Culvert
fund first that would be my my strategy
on how to do it
understood okay um
so I'm going to make a motion to
schedule a public meeting for the 13th
of
March to discuss and act upon the AES
solar
project the meeting to start at
7M
seconded all those in
favor I I for nothing uh and I'll just
make another motion to schedule a public
meeting for March
13th to discuss and act upon the request
for the fire department for an ordinance
change for a increase to the fire
department
batement uh discussion to act upon an
ordin ordinance
uh not regarding uh an
ordinance
um limiting access to Kines on all and
over recreational
fields and to act
on financing approving financing for the
Fire Department Squad
vehicle this meeting will start 10
minutes after the end of the
first the first town meeting scheduled
for the 13th of
March does anybody need any changes to
that sounds
good okay second that let's go second
all right all those in favor I I or
nothing okay item
four in our agenda is
um discussion about what to do with a
senior Transportation vehicle we've all
gotten information from Eric and from
Jeff Murray regarding vehicles
[Music]
um Jeff why don't you lead this because
you're obviously much more familiar or
Eric if you'd like to review
your uh actually I just went down and
took a look at the vehicle before this
meeting we took a walk around and
crawled underneath and took a look at
it
okay so
um as everybody's aware it's missing the
side skirting on the driver and the
passenger side um
this vehicle it's it rides very low so
it's it's it's to me it's it's it's not
really the fault of the drivers it's
it's pretty with the roads that we have
around here and the dips uh like uh
Curbing and speed bumps it would be
pretty easy to pull those skirts off of
there um so you know if those can be
replaced that would be great um I'm a
little concerned about the corrosion uh
looks like Public Works put some
silicone in the holes that were into the
cabin um I would probably consider
suggesting before we do a permanent fix
that we use like a rust encapsulator
like P 15 and then we use seam sealer on
the holes to to tighten everything up
because the silicone is just going to
trap the water in there and make the
rust worse in the long term so um that
would address that issue I know Jay
noted that there was some paint bubbling
I saw one little spot on the back
passenger fender like right over the the
right over the wheel well uh most of the
bubbling seems to be on the Hood um but
if it gets significant enough we could
always get a uh a hood from a from a
from a junkyard or or something to
replace that I mean overall the body of
the vehicle in pretty good shape it
doesn't have a lot of dense dings in it
it's just a skirting on the bottom um
I'm a little concerned about the
transmission I know Eric quoted us uh
$4,500 to as Max discussions with Eric
that's that's maximum what we would hit
for to replace that transmission but
I've done some research and I really
don't think we need to replace it I
think it's that vehicle has 98,000 miles
on it and going back through the service
records and and from talking to people
the transmission fluid has never been
changed in that vehicle and so it's
probably pretty likely that that filter
and that transmission is clogged or it's
just filled with Gunk and it's not it's
not flowing properly um it's either lad
or there's a shift control module that's
right in front of the driver's front
passenger fender well and judging by the
corrosion that we have on the rocker
panels um those do tend to corrode out
and they get holes in them and then
watering is in them and then we uh end
up with a failure there so it's it's
probably most likely one of those two
things which would be a much lower cost
than
$4,500 um and I know Jay noted that
there was a significant coolant leak and
the radiator was down quite a bit um I
was suggest we do a leak down test on
the cooling system to make sure that um
we should replace that one hose that he
identified as a leak um after that we
should pressure test the system to make
sure we haven't compromised the head
gaskets on the on the engine so we
should make sure that that's holding
properly it's not it's not an expensive
test it's something easily that a garage
can do and if that checked I would
probably do that first and then if the
engine if the cooling system holds
pressure and everything looks good then
we could probably address the
transmission issues take a to a
transmission shop and if that's not a
major deal to fix then we get the
corrosion issues fixed because the
corrosion itself doesn't really affect
the drivability of the vehicle it's just
kind of more of a cosmetic type thing
right now um if we can get that sealed
up um and get that fixed and get the
Mechanicals fixed um there's some issues
with the shocks that we need to have
replaced um it's it's it looked a lot
worse when I saw it but it really
doesn't appear that bad so if the engine
that the head gaskets are good the
cooling system's solid and we can get
the transmission repaired for a
reasonable rate I don't see any reason
why we should shouldn't repair the
vehicle and and keep it in
service um so originally kind of
originally was thinking we should not
keep the vehicle but you know just
judging at the condition of it now and
and the replacement cost of it it
probably makes sense to try to look at
repairing
it okay any of the other three members
have any problems with that do you think
that that rot could be cut out and a new
piece in there Jeff um what I think
should probably happen is yeah we could
probably it's not there's a couple holes
in there that are
rotten said I don't know what Public
Works is doing now if they would be
interested in doing that repair and and
putting seam sealer on it and 4 15 and
just you know 45 works really great it's
a rust encapsulator it will encapsulate
any of the rust and keeping any further
corrosion from happening and then that
seam sealer would keep the water out of
the cabin or the the area where the
passengers sit um it's it's a pretty
simple fix I don't know if they'd be
interested in doing it but before we
took it to have the rocker panels
replaced that would definitely probably
get that sealed up and get it fixed more
permanently because with the silicone in
there it's just going to hold the water
and we're just going to get more
corrosion and I would rather do it now
that we can get after it um but I don't
I don't think it's significant enough
right now that it would hamper the
vehicle we could probably get another
couple years out of it until we got
another
replacement okay that area is not
compromised enough you to worry about
you it seems like when they mod so they
modify that whole pan in the in that
vehicle they it's basically the whole
thing is lowered if you look at it it's
it's not that far off the ground so you
know like when you see those panels
missing if somebody if they if they
drive into a parking lot or something
that's a raised bump or a raised curbing
it's going to catch those panels it's
going to rip them off um so I mean the
drivers maybe need to be a little bit
more cognizant of that in the future if
we do this repair um but um I think
right now we don't have the funds to
replace that vehicle so I mean I think
doing our due diligence and having the
transmission inspected and and and
having the cooling system inspected I
mean even Public Works they can order
they can get a pressure tester from Napa
and just do a leakdown test on the
cooling system we could probably get
that hose and replace it and just verify
that the engine's good and and if
they're willing to do that I think it
would probably we could probably take it
to Terry's transmission or another
transmission shop in the area and have
them take a look at the
transmission so right I AG do the
coolant for run the motor make sure it's
still good yeah there's no sense to
replace getting the transmission repair
if the motor if there's the head gaskets
compromised so I mean if the head gasket
was bad I mean there was one thing I
don't know um who was putting oil in it
but it looked like it was overfilled by
a couple quarts um so I don't I don't
know how that happened but um if usually
you get a head gasal leak you'll get you
know you have milky colored oil you get
water in the oil so um I'm probably
pretty positive I'm pretty confident
that the head gaskets are okay but we
probably should do I mean the tester is
$30 we should just put a tester on it
and just check the leak down of it and
just make sure it's it's it's fine they
may even have a tester down there I
don't I'm not I'm not
sure all right Eric can we get my
suggestion can we get that done in the
next couple weeks so at our next meeting
we can I mean or even du boys if we
could take it to to boys they could
probably they could probably do a test
on it too they probably have the tester
well listen you need that vehicle in
circulation anyway Eric if is was my
understanding
so um
let's do the testing that Jeff is
requesting and let's let's focus on
trying to repair that vehicle so they
can get back into service yeah let at a
minimum right now let's get the cooling
leak fixed let's get the transmission
fixed and then let's try to scheduling
the repair of the rocker panels because
that's that's just a cosmetic fix at
this point if we can get those holes
sealed up properly it won't be really a
big
deal okay not a problem excellent U
let's move on to item five decisions
regarding the budget um item one
Personnel cost
discussion yep what issues so there were
two decisions that as a board uh you did
not make up to this point um that I
think the uh Board of Finance was
looking for you to make and they were
things that were in the budget item
number one was question actually there
there were kind of three things in terms
of budgeted items Jeff Murray asked to
increase the budgeted amount for senior
Transportation
maintenance um by
$3,500 specifically to allow annual
undercoding um as well as the
subscription for the car wash so that I
think is a reasonable
request um I would suggest that you uh
as a board agree to that
um and then the second thing were the
two salary items one was increasing the
line item for the senior center uh
director um which would go take that
from a part-time to a full-time position
I know no decision was ever made on that
and the second thing was a proposal from
Jay uh which I endorsed which was to
promote uh one of the employee employees
from maintainer one to maintainer 2 um
and those are really the three
outstanding things that the board of
Selectmen had um you know regarding the
budget well let's take the easiest one
so I make a motion that we increase uh
the senior
Transportation uh line item by $3,500 to
account for rust proofing and washing of
the vehicles as necessary
second
that all right all those in favor
all okay
um let's discuss the the the maintainer
position sure
so
um does anyone have a problem with
promoting that individual to maintainer
to so I'll just give you a quick
synopsis on what that
means um as of the 2025 26 fiscal year a
maintainer one would get an hourly wage
of
$256 an hour and a maintainer two is a
jump to
$3.38 an hour so it is a relatively
significant jump um the employing
question has been employed full-time in
Andover for two and a half years uh
prior to that he was employed part-time
for the town for 16 years before that um
and he was also previously a full-time
Town employee uh when he was much
younger before he went into business for
himself so in total the guy's had more
than 20 years of employment with the
town of Andover and he certainly has the
skill set to handle any piece of heavy
equipment or perform any task that
Public Works does so in in my personal
opinion he's well qualified to be a
maintainer too um and should be paid
accordingly so you're talking a
difference of
$112,000 uh just over
11,000 does that include the
contributions contributions to murf and
everything that no that's just in salary
yeah so we're going to have additional
costs for murf and everything else
correct that don't show up in your
figures uh well it's baked into the
budget now but into the uh murf and the
indirect costs but it's not um it was
never a final decision was never made by
the board of Selectmen on
that so all you're asking us to do
is
is give our approval to that line item
so that the board of Finance can sit
there and
then evaluate and determine what they
want to do correct I mean ultimately two
things have to happen the board of
Selectmen has to agree to that in
concept and then the board of Finance
has to decide whether they want a budget
for it because obviously he can't get he
can't get promoted if there's no money
to do
it and and because he's on a contract we
cannot give him a stepped raise to move
him closer to the maintainer to over two
years three years whatever we
chose not not this year I mean we could
negotiate that or something similar to
that potentially next year as part of a
con new contract but for the upcoming
year
no and Eric other
than what's the value for the town to do
it I'm just asking in a general question
I mean I know it's a $1,000 raise for
the employee and that's positive and
great probably deserves it but are we
gonna get anything extra out of it Eric
if we approve it nope nope same employee
doing the same
job yeah and Jee I kind of look at this
as a public works expenditure I mean the
last couple years we've we've invested
heavily in public
works and we're going to have a
challenge right now this budget season
so I'm I'm kind of on the fence with
this
one yeah it's it's kind of it's a
stretch I mean I wish we had a way to
step into it like so we could step into
it over three years or two years yeah
the bump is the bump is significant
yeah um
well I I know we're going to have a
problem with the board of Finance on
this one anyway
so um are there any alternatives Eric
it's either zero or or
11,000 per the Union contract is either
a maintainer one or a maintainer two
well what do we want to do do we want to
sit there and and not push that
forward or do we want to push it forward
and then let the board of Finance decide
what they want to
do anybody Scott
an I feel like he's it sounds like he's
had a lot of years with us maybe not in
this position is that
correct that he hasn't always been in
this position but he has had our years
of experience with us I
guess I feel bad if he's had a lot of
years working for the town yet he
doesn't have as much pay as somebody who
has had less years with the town well
there are no maintainer twos right now
are
there yes yes there who is maintain two
others uh there are
um right now we have one maintainer
three two maintainer twos and one
maintainer
one
okay so we brought
the so Tommy is the
three Zach two Z a two
yep and who's the other one that's a two
uh Richard ban is a two Richard B
okay oh based upon that I would sit
there and say that you probably need to
we need to sit there and deal with this
at a different year and a different
budget
cycle okay all
right um
all right and the last one was related
to the full-time or the part-time on the
senior center program correct currently
per
contract that individuals pay next year
next budget season will be
$47,000 as a part-time position working
26 hours week and the question
is is
you know I I do not believe that's
enough hours for that job to be done
well um you know I think that should be
a full-time position but at the end of
the day it's not my my job to make that
decision okay so again so so it goes
from a 26h hour position to a 34h hour
week position we're talking eight
additional
hours corre
okay
[Music]
um are there any additional costs other
than the the percentage increases that
come with murf and all the rest of the
stuff there's nothing large that we're
going to deal with as Town related to
those extra eight hours not that I know
of
no
I I believe we built that building for a
reason and that we should we should sit
there and continue to move forward and I
have no problem with the extra eight
hours Jeff I just like to say one
comment our assistant that we have hired
we're not even utilizing her all her
hours so if her hours were being maxed
out and our our head you know
our head person there was was if if Tess
was doing 26 and uh Kim was doing her
pull 10 I would say there was some
justification there this is a new
position we're still trying to figure
out
what the roles and responsibilities are
and you know I just think it's kind of
premature right now to kind of make a
decision and that's that's my personal
opinion okay everybody
else Eric is it true that Kim is not
working her 10
hours I would have to look at this
week's payroll to tell you exactly how
many hours she's worked but remember the
the job of of the assistant and the job
of the director are very
different um different pay scale
different
expectations um you know I can't tell
you off the top of my head exactly how
many hours the assistant is
working yeah but if the director's
overloaded she should offload some stuff
on the assistant like scheduling the the
transportation things like that and if
she's booked like I said if the two of
them are completely booked and they
don't have enough time then I would be
supportive of this but
you know I've I've been told multiple
times that she has not been working uh
her full 10 hours a week so the
justification to make this a full-time
position when the assistant is not even
doing the 10 hours is you know I I just
kind of have to question it a little
bit Eric do you go over her
time yes but I mean you're asking me off
the cuff to remember exactly what hours
I approved for one of 30s something hour
30s something people I sign off on um
you know I'm just asking if you remember
I'm not putting you on I I don't I
don't because I would think that any
extra you know she would be working the
10 hours if T is already ma
out that's what I would think but I
think we're missing it's not just a
transactional issue of working the hours
it's what do you want to do with the
program do we want to sit there and and
move the program forward and and try to
continue to
build functions and and and events that
our seniors and the rest of the
community can use or do we want to
curtail that or keep it right where it's
at if we want to keep it right where
it's at then that's fine every body can
step up and say we're going to keep it
at 26 hours I mean we're
talking we're talking eight hours but
that's keeping that building open eight
hours longer yeah I mean I'd rather
spend our money you know training four
or five people that are local that would
maybe want to open and close the
building for special events if somebody
has something they want to do on a
Saturday you know and if test is not
available somebody that would be able to
go in and lock up and and check to make
sure that the building was left in a
satisfactory condition because I know
she can't keep all those hours and we're
eventually going to have to get some
coverage and if we had a if that that
was my plan for Kim is you know for the
system would be to kind of take up those
those days and and times that you know
our director is not
available well isn't that what Kim could
be doing right now then and we could
expand the program like we had planned
yeah we could but that's the director's
decision
so do you really but the the point is
that the hard part is not somebody
sitting there when a program takes place
the hard part is somebody has to
organize
schedule you know figure out the the
food
situation you know that's that's where
we're lacking not on because honestly
most board and commission meetings that
occur there at night nobody's there I
mean we can enable volunteers to open
and close the
facility the the question is can you run
the facility and can you good do a good
job of providing programs for the
community and can you run senior
transportation and deal with all the
drivers issues and deal with all the
scheduling um in 26 hours and I do not
believe so um it's been my observation
that Tess is working a lot more than 26
hours now she's just not getting paid
for
it um and that you know in my head is a
problem right Jeff Jeff Murray when we
were at that uh direct committee meeting
they all said that Tess's hours she
couldn't do the job on the hours that
she has that she would need and they all
expounded on this that she needs more
hour I remember that I'm saying
that yeah I wish we had somebody from
the r Commission on tonight um you know
I just I just want to make an example
like if you look at glassary I've runed
JB Williams Park multiple times and
there's not a community center director
doing that that's that's somebody hired
by the town of Glastonberry parttime
that goes and opens up the gate for the
event uh welcomes the people in and then
closing time when you're when you're
when your time is up at the at the
Pavilion they come up and and make sure
that everything's clean and put away and
and they lock the they lock everything
down and so you can get your deposit
back that's that's kind of what I
envisioned for some of these nightly
events if if we want to start doing
things like that is we really need to
kind
of look look more into the community for
people that'd be willing to do that and
just pay a stip in for that just like
glenbury does
it sounds like that's something that Kim
would be doing yeah it could be Kim it
could be anybody I
mean that's the thing I mean test is not
going to be available 247 so we I mean
we really need to expand
on people that we could you know trust
to open and close the community center
and and make notes if it's in good shape
or not like make sure the bathrooms
aren't you know vandalized and that type
of thing you know close the center up
we're gon to we're going to have to get
there but we're talking transactional
things not right not what are we doing
to improve the programs and improve the
overall utilization of that building
right and that's to my point Jeff if
she's not going to be there at night
we're still paying her for eight more
hours and she won't she she will she'll
expand her hours but they're mostly
going to be in the daytime we're going
to have a we're going to have
requirements to use that building in the
evenings and I don't see any coverage
now for that and we need to we need to
really look at that I mean when you
rented the park didn't you pay a fee to
rent the park yes I paid a fee and I
paid a deposit and they called a steward
or or somebody that was in charge of the
park to to open and close it for me
right so if we if we chose the same
model and we did something at the
building not a town function but
something that was outside the town
function wouldn't we have some resources
to pay the stien that you're talking
about to the individual correct correct
that would probably be in the use fees
in a usage fee but we don't have that in
place right I think I think the big gap
right now is is is getting coverage in
the evenings for that Center because
right now we're only covered till about
2:30 in the
afternoon well the issue that we're
talking about with this EXT these extra
hours is to grow the programs not the
individual transactions that you're
talking about gr the programs for the
for the about what programs are we
talking about shouldn't we be that's
what we're trying to do if I know if I
had a if I had a list of things that we
could do with those extra hours I would
be more acceptable to it I just I don't
want to hear I want more hours I want to
know what you're going to do with those
hours I don't because just to say I need
more hours to do what I'm doing now I
mean if we're not utilizing the
assistant um I have a hard time adding
hours to a position that we're not even
using the
assistant Eric is Tess there a lot that
a lot of the time that she's not getting
paid for yeah I mean she works a lot
more than 26 hours
now I came out of the playing pickle
ball the other day and she was there on
Sunday
yeah you think that's a job you can
really get done in 26 hours a week
that's I saying my job is 44 hours a
week which is my my contract is yet here
I sit yep and I do the same thing I'm
salary too and I bill out way more than
40 hours a week and I put it on my time
because I charge my time to certain
projects and it's over usually over it's
usually over my alloted
time okay so
yep are we having a problem are we gonna
have a problem um so Jeff you're you're
you would vote no an just vote no okay
um Joanne hour for right now Joanne just
messaged she said she had an idea we'd
like her to speak since she's on the
board of
Finance sure go
ahead I appreciate it and I never asked
to speak in your meetings but I've been
spending a lot of time this year on
budget items and salary items and I know
this was a Hot Topic item so I figured
since you're you know digging deep here
and deciding and
ultimately I'm going to put my camera on
ultimately it'll come to the board of
Finance you know to see if it goes
through or what happens and again being
a little PR prelim preliminary last year
at our
meetings I know that this position was
approved at a full-time position at and
I'm gonna you know just say that out
loud so we approved it at a salary that
was in the budget for
50,000 um I know that when the current
person got hired she got hired at a
salary that's also posted which is just
a little south of that you know for the
26 hours we all know these kind of
positions you know you have to be
available you put a lot of time into it
that kind of thing I had been kind of
getting a little bit
creative um with knowing the different
things that are at the Town Hall so I
know in the past um again I was going to
speak to this tomorrow night at our
meeting but this is you all have to hear
it too I thought of a compromise of
possibly having the position go up to 30
hours um you know we can you all can
decide on a salary I can send a separate
email with the details that I had come
up but we've also before we had the
senior community center we had employees
in the town hall that were nice enough
to take on additional duties one of them
I'm not going to say a name or anything
I don't believe in that but they get
quite a sizable stipend to do what's
called um a municipal agent the
municipal agent has to be available so
for SE for um you know I have my backup
but it it is related to senior citizen
duties being available so maybe we can
think about it and move that as nice as
the person at the Town Hall was for
doing it and it goes up every year if we
eliminate that expense in your town
budget to the tune of 6,100 and then
when you add in the murf we're paying
out 7500 a year for that position we
bring it over into the Senior Community
Hall with our new person um which makes
sense to me you know I've gotten the the
information on what they do they have to
be you know give referrals in this give
that a try so you're saving money in the
town line of that nice employee that was
doing doing it we have a little wiggle
room to work with to offer the senior
center person you know director who I'm
going to go down and meet I like to look
into all of these things and I know I've
been talking to this you know we have a
little extra money to put there which
maybe will make that position happy and
you know so a compromise of like 30
hours a week we don't need to pay a
person at the Town Hall A Staten anymore
we can move that over to the the
municipal the municipal agent for the
elderly so that fits that AR there
aren't there two different aren't there
two different like totally two distinct
different programs it's a Social
Services Program I've done a lot of work
since I never speak to something unless
I've called about it we have 3,000
residents we've been nice enough to have
this person do these duties when we
didn't want to hire a full-time or
part-time person I never want to take
work away from someone but it seems
perfect that now that we're talking
about a full-time person in the senior
center why isn't that person the
municipal agent in the point of contact
for things that go with the elderly and
senior citizens yes there's a few again
I I couldn't not speak tonight Jeff I
mean it's a nice compromise
save5 I have no problem with you
speaking I just trying to keep it like
on the topic of what we're trying to
accomplish well when you're getting so
close to de deciding you know and it's
going to go yay or nay I figured I'd let
you guys all in on what I've been
thinking about and research so so your
your thought is a 30-hour position for
the director as opposed to a 34-hour
position okay so an and Jeff would you
be willing to consider
that with the stien going away Jeff you
the whole thing is Jeff our Charter requ
a municipal agent and so does the state
I
know yeah I looked into that so that
would be our senior center director
where it should
be okay that's the only thing is it' be
a modification to her contract and her
duties so that would have to be a
discussion with her in the town so um so
we're back to the issue that we've
addressed that we have two no and and
whatever so uh Eric we're going to end
up keeping the position at $26
hour
okay um all right does anybody have any
other issues they need to
address okay uh we're gonna move on to
item six public speak uh Valerie you're
first I'm all set thank
you uh Joanne Hebert
okay than you for the time I appreciate
it I like to be transparent I like to
put my face out there never behind any
closed door it's there thank you trying
to trying to save money for the
town T
grous I have nothing to
add
Jesse I'm good thank you Kimberly person
nothing right now thank you uh Louise
Goodwin yeah I do want to say something
um I've been over at the senior center
quite a bit and I feel Tess is doing an
excellent job and I think the extra
hours would have been more beneficial
for her that's that's my two cense
because I I've seen what she
does and that's all I want to
say thank you slow
catch I'm all set for now thank you okay
uh item seven uh
adjournment motion to
adjourn second that and second all those
in favor I I thank you very much